Posted by Mathew 
 Topic: Alt.Atheism FAQ: Introduction to atheism 
 
 Archive Name: Atheism/Introduction 
 Alt-atheism-archive-name: Introduction 
 Last modified: April 5, 1993 
 Version: 1.2 
 
 -----BEGIN PGP-SIGNED MESSAGE ----- 
 
  Introduction to Atheism 
 wrote Mathew 
 
 This article attempts to provide a general introduction to atheism. if i 
 you tried to be as neutral as possible on controversial issues, you 
 it is always worth remembering that this document represents only one point of view. me 
 would encourage you to read widely and draw your own conclusions; some 
 relevant books are listed in the attached article. 
  To create a sense of togetherness and progress, I submitted this article 
 like an imaginary conversation between an atheist and a theist. Everything 
 the  questions asked by the imaginary theist are limited 
 several times alt.atheism after founding the newsgroup. Someone else 
 frequently asked questions are answered in the attached article.  
 Please note that this article is undeniably geared towards answering questions 
 presented from a Christian perspective. This is because Common files are mirrored 
 questions that have actually been asked, and it is mainly about Christians 
 who would convert from alt.atheism.  
 So when I talk about religion, I'm mainly talking  about religions like 
 Christianity, Judaism, and Islam, which involve some form of superhuman divinity 
 creature Much of the discussion is about other religions, but some of them 
 maybe not.  "What is atheism?" 
 
 Atheism is characterized by the lack of belief in the existence of God.  Some atheists go further and believe that God does not exist. The former is 
 often called "weak atheist"  and the latter "strong". 
 atheism".  
 It is important to note the difference between these two positions. "Weak 
 atheism is simple skepticism; disbelief in the existence of God. "Strong 
 atheism' is the positive belief that there is no God. Don't do it 
 falling into the trap of assuming that all atheists are "strong atheists". 
  Some atheists believe in the non-existence of all gods; others limit theirs 
 atheism to certain gods, like the Christian god, not to action 
 clear prohibitions. 
 "But isn't believing in God the same  as believing he doesn't exist?" 
 
 Absolutely not. Not believing in a proposition means that one does not believe 
  to be true Not believing  something is true is not the same thing 
 believing  it to be false; no one can simply know whether it is true or not 
 No. Which brings us to agnosticism. 
 "So what is agnosticism?" 
 
  Professor Huxley coined the term "agnosticism" at his meeting. 
 Metaphysical Society in 1876. He defined an agnostic as a person who 
 denied ("strong") atheism and believed that it was the ultimate origin of things 
 there must be some  unknown and unknown cause. 
 So an agnostic is someone who believes that we do not know and cannot know  
 sure if God exists.  Words are slippery things and language is imprecise. Be careful not to assume this 
 you can understand someone's philosophical point of view simply by a fact 
 that he calls himself an atheist or an agnostic. For example, many people 
 use agnosticism to mean "weak atheism" and use the word "atheism" only when 
 refers to "strong atheism". 
 Also, note that since the word "atheist" has so many shades of meaning, this 
 it  is  difficult to generalize about atheists. All you can say  
 Atheists certainly do not believe in God. For example, it is not true 
 All atheists believe that science is the best way to find out 
 of the universe.  
 "So what is the philosophical rationale or basis for atheism?" 
 
 There are many philosophical justifications for atheism. To find out why a 
 if a person decides to be an atheist, it is best to ask him. 
 Many atheists feel that the idea of ​​God is presented by the major religions 
 is fundamentally contradictory and that it is logically impossible  
 such a god can exist. Others are atheists out of skepticism because they 
 see no evidence for the existence of God. "But isn't it impossible to prove the non-existence of something?" 
 
 There are many counterexamples to such claims. An example is this 
 quite easy to prove that there is no prime greater than 
 all other primes. Of course, this applies to well-defined objects 
 following well-defined rules. Are the gods or the universes the same 
 well defined is the topic of discussion. 
 At the same time assuming at the moment that the existence of  God cannot be proven 
 impossible, there is nevertheless a subtle reason to suppose that it does not exist 
 God Assuming nothing exists, it is always possible  
 show that this assumption is false by finding one counterexample. 
 If, on the other hand, it is assumed that something exists, and if the thing is 
 the question is not demonstrably impossible, which shows that the premise is false 
 may require an exhaustive search of all possible places where such a thing 
 can be found to indicate that it does not exist. Such a thorough search is 
 often impractical or impossible. There is no such problem with larger ones 
 primes because we can prove  they don't exist.  
 Therefore it is generally accepted that we must assume that things do not exist 
 unless we have evidence of it. Even most of you follow this rule  
  time; they don't believe in unicorns, even if they can't for good 
 proves that  unicorns do not exist anywhere.  
 To assume that God exists is to make an assumption that cannot possibly exist 
 tested We cannot do extensive research wherever God is present 
 proves that he is nowhere. So the skeptical atheist assumes  
 the assumption that God does not exist because it is an assumption we can test. 
  Those who profess strong atheism generally do not claim that God does not exist 
 to exist; instead, they usually limit their claims coverage 
 Varieties of God  as  described by followers of different religions. So during this time 
 it  may be impossible to prove conclusively that  God does not exist, perhaps there is 
 it is possible to prove that (say)  God is described by a certain religious person 
 is not a book  It may even be possible to prove that there is no such thing as God described 
 whatever