by Matthew
Subj: Alternative Atheism FAQ: Resources for Atheists


Name of the archive: resources/atheism
alternative name for the archive: resources
Added on December 11, 1992
1. Version

Resources for Atheists

Organizations that are atheists' addresses

USA

FUND FOR RELIGIOUS FREEDOM

The Freedom From Religion Foundation sells Darwin fish bumper stickers and various other atheist knickknacks in the US.

Send correspondence to FFRF at PO Box 750, Madison, WI 53701.
Phone number: (608) 256-8900

ADVANCED DESIGNS

The "Darwin fish" is for sale at Evolution Designs. A fish emblem with feet and the word "Darwin" written inside, similar to the ones Christians stick on their cars. The price of the deluxe 3D plastic fish in the US is $4.95 postpaid.

Address correspondence to Evolution Designs at 7119 Laurel Canyon #4, North Hollywood, California 91605.

Darwin Fish can be obtained by residents of the San Francisco Bay area from Lynn Gold, try sending a letter. The cost per fish for net users who travel straight to Lynn is $4.95.

U.S. Atheist Press

AAP publishes a variety of atheist literature, including analyses of the Bible and lists of its inconsistencies. Such a book includes:

written by W.P. Ball and G.W. Foote, "The Biblical Handbook." United States Atheist Press.
ISBN 0-910309-26-4, 2nd edition, 1986, 372 pages. The Bible contradicts itself, according to Ball and Foote in "The Bible Contradicts Itself," AAP. based on the Bible's King James translation.

Send correspondence to either 7215 Cameron Road, Austin, TX 78752-2973, or American Atheist Press, P.O. Box 140195, Austin, TX 78714-0195.
Call (512) 458-1244 or fax (512) 467-9525

BOOKS BY PROMETHEUS

Sell books, including "Holy Horrors" by Haught (see below).

Buffalo, New York, 700 East Amherst Street, for correspondence 14215.
Contact number: (716) 837-2475.

Prometheus Books, 59 Glenn Drive, Buffalo, NY 14228-2197, is a different (perhaps more recent or earlier) address.

FOR HUMANISM: AFRICAN-AMERICANS

An organisation tracing the history of black freethought and supporting black secular humanism. AAH EXAMINER, their quarterly newsletter, is published.

African Americans for Humanism, PO Box 664, Buffalo, NY 14226, Norm R. Allen, Jr., is the address to write to.

British Empire

National Secular Society, Rationalist Press Association, 88 Islington High Street, 702 Holloway Road, London N1 8EW, London N19 3NL, telephone: (712) 226-7251, fax: (712) 272-1266

Red Lion Square, 14 Lamb's Conduit Passage, Conway Hall, London WC1R 4RH, British Humanist Association South Place Ethical Society, 071 430 0908, London WC1R 4RL, fax 071 430 1271, and telephone number 761 831 7723

Published by The National Secular Society Founded in 1881, "The Freethinker" is a monthly magazine.

Germany

German organisation IBKA e.V. Internationaler Bund der Konfessionslosen und Atheisten Postfach 880, D-1000 Berlin 41.

Journal MIZ (Materialien und Informationen zur Zeit) is published by IBKA. Political Magazine of Atheists and Confessional Losers. IBKA e.V., Hrsg.
Germany: MIZ-Vertrieb Postfach 880, D-1000 Berlin 41.

Write to: for books by atheists.

Germany's IBDK, Internationaler B"ucherdienst der Konfessionslosen Postfach 3005, D-3000 Hannover 1.
Phone number: 0511/211216


Reading — Fiction

M. Thomas Dich

The compromise known as "Santa Claus"
A quick story. The clearest indication that Santa is real. The events and all the characters are made up. Any resemblance to gods, living or otherwise, is, well...

JR. WALTER M. MILLER

The song "A Canticle for Leibowitz"
The monks who spent their lives transcribing blueprints from ancient texts are a gem in this post-apocalyptic book.
"Saint Leibowitz," writing in white letters and leaving white lines on the paper.

THEODORE PANGBORN

"Davy," a post-apocalyptic book set in clerical states. For instance, the religion forbids anyone from "producing, describing, or using any substance comprising atoms."

Theodore K. Dick

Theodore K. Dick Several of Dick's short tales and books are philosophical and thought-provoking. Although occasionally odd, his stories are highly likeable.
He wrote primarily science fiction, but he focused more on people, truth, and religion than on technology. Even though he frequently thought he had encountered a form of God, he maintained his scepticism. The following books by him are somewhat relevant:

The "Galactic Pot-Healer"
A group of Earthly artisans and women are enlisted to travel to a far-off planet to raise a massive edifice emerging from the seas. Joe Fernwright, a pot healer, is unable to give up as the deity starts to demand faith from the earthlings. A well-written, funny novel with irony.

"A Maze of Death" is noteworthy for describing a religion based on technology.

"VALIS"
A pink laser beam of unknown but presumably divine origin fires reality into the hero's head, forcing him to dig for the Gnostic Christianity's hidden mysteries. Together with various other strange personalities, he is accompanied by his dogmatic and disdainful atheist friend.

called "The Divine Invasion"
God makes a young woman pregnant while she travels back to Earth from another star system. She must rely on a dead man with a wired 24-hour assistance system because she is terminally ill.
background music.

MARC G. ATWOOD

Watch "The Handmaid's Tale"
a narrative wherein the US Congress is murderously slain and fundamentalists swiftly seize power in an effort to "correct" the country. The book concerns a woman's attempt to live under the new Christian theocracy and is written as a journal. The privilege of women to own property is taken away, their bank accounts are closed, immoral extravagances are forbidden, and the radio is only used for Bible readings. Retroactive punishment for crimes means that physicians who carried out legal abortions in the "old world" are sought out and executed. Although Atwood's writing style takes some getting used to at first, the story eventually becomes progressively more terrifying.

DIFFERENT AUTHORS

In "The Bible"
This work has received a lot of criticism for being a bit boring and rambling. Even still, it is probably worthwhile to read it so you can understand the fuss. Make sure you obtain the one true version because there are many various variations of it.

Non-fiction books

P. DE RONSA

1988's "Vicars of Christ," Bantam Press
This history of papal immoralities, adulteries, fallacies, etc. is quite illuminating despite the fact that de Rosa appears to be Christian or even Catholic.
(Translation into German: "Gottes erste Diener. Droemer-Knaur, 1989's "Die dunkle Seite des Papsttums"

DANIEL MARTIN

"Atheism: A Philosophical Argument," Philadelphia, USA: Temple University Press.
A thorough and academic defence of atheism. The appendix, which defines vocabulary and usage in this (necessarily) contentious topic, is excellent. argues both "bad" sides
Both "positive atheism" (the belief in the non-existence of god(s)) and "negative atheism" (the lack of conviction in the existence of god(s)) are terms for atheism. Contains excellent refutations of the most difficult theistic arguments; special emphasis is placed on disproving contemporary theists like Platinga and Swinburne.
541 pages. ISBN 0-87722-642-3 (Hardcover; also available in paperback)

Temple University Press's "The Argument Against Christianity"
A thorough examination of Christianity in which he examines the strongest arguments offered in favour of it today and (in the end) shows that they are fallacious or inconsistent.
273 pages. ISBN 0-87722-767-5

TOM TURNER

The Johns Hopkins University Press, Baltimore, Maryland, USA, "Without God, Without Creed"
"The Roots of Unbelief in America" is the subtitle. examines how atheism—whether it be agnostic or atheistic—became a popular alternative worldview. Focusses
while taking into account France and Britain, the focus is on American changes, notably those in New England, over the period of 1770–1900. Without God, Without Faith is an intellectual history of the fate of a single notion, the belief that God exists. It is neither a religious history of secularisation or atheism.
316 pages. ISBN 0-8018-2494-X (hardcover) and 0-8018-3407-4 (paperback)

G. E. SELDES (Editor)

Ballantine Books, "The Great Thoughts," New York, USA
A distinct kind of "dictionary of quotations," focusing on words and phrases that reveal a person's philosophy and worldview either overtly or covertly. includes esoteric (and frequently hidden) viewpoints from numerous people. analyses the ways that diverse individuals have conveyed and distorted the idea over the ages for some common observations. The majority of the quotes are
adapted from Noyes' "Views on Religion" and Cardiff's "What Great Men Believe about Religion."
490 pages. ISBN 0-345-29887-X (paper).

DAVID SWINBURNE

Clarendon Paperbacks, Oxford, "The Existence of God (Revised Edition)"
The Coherence of Theism, published in 1977, served as the first book in a trilogy that ended with Faith and Reason, published in 2008. (1981). Swinburne makes an effort to develop a number of inductive arguments for the existence of God in this work. His arguments, which are a little tendentious and rely on attributing late 20th century western Christian aesthetics to a God who is supposed to be as basic as can be imagined, were categorically rejected in Mackie's "The Miracle of Theism." In "The Existence of God" revised version, Swinburne provides an
In the appendix, he attempts to refute Mackie in a rambling manner.

MACKIE, J. L

Oxford's "The Miracle of Theism"
The main arguments for and against the presence of God are thoroughly reviewed in this (posthumous) volume. It includes the moral arguments of Newman, Kant, and Sidgwick, the traditional philosophical stances of Descartes, Anselm, Berkeley, Hume, and others, as well as more contemporary restatement of the traditional theses by Plantinga and Swinburne. It also discusses "replacements for God," such Lelie's axiarchism, as well as perspectives that extend the idea of God beyond the bounds of reason, like those of Kierkegaard, Kung, and Philips. The book is enjoyable to read because it is more informal and better written than Martin's writings.
Compared to Swinburne's hand-waving, directness is preferred.

J. A. Haught

Prometheus Books' "Holy Horrors: An Illustrated History of Religious Murder and Madness"
examines religious persecution, not just by Christians, from ancient times to the present.
1990. 89-64079 is the Library of Congress catalogue card number.

R. NORM ALLEN, JR.

The anthology "Black American Humanism"
Please refer to the section on African Americans for Humanism up top.

GARRETT STEIN

Anthology of Rationalism and Atheism Prometheus Publishing
A collection of essays on a variety of topics, such as "The Devil, Evil, and Morality" and "The History of Freethought." a thorough bibliography.

D. EDMUND COHEN

Prometheus Publications, "The Mind of The Bible-Believer"
a study of the causes of and effects on those who become fervent Christians.

Resources in Net

There is Old alt.atheism.moderated articles and several other data are archived on a small mail-based archive server at mantis.co.uk. Send an email with the subject "Further information" to archive-server@mantis.co.uk.

contribute to atheism/index

and a response will be mailed to you.


mathew\sÿ
